The movie starts off with the audience being introduced to a wanted man (Rahul Dev) who escapes from cops in Italy. Then the setting shifts to Kolkata where we meet Ganesh (Ajith) and his sister Tamizh (Lakshmi Menon) who have just moved there. Ganesh takes up a job as a cabbie while his sister goes to art college. One day, Shruti Haasan, who plays a lawyer, hails his cab and gets entwined in his life. Shruti's brother (Ashwin Kakumanu) ends up falling in love with Ganesh's sister and they get engaged. And that's when we see Ganesh killing some goons. So who is Vedalam? What happens to Ganesh's sister Tamizh? Who are the men behind them and why?

What's hot:

This movie is an out and out commercial entertainer. Director Siruthai Siva has ensured that there is plenty for Ajith fans and the family audience. Ajith has punch dialogues, high octane action sequences and all the right dance moves. He plays the good and the bad with ease and is a treat to watch on screen. The sister sentiment (the story revolves around Tamizh) and the fact that men need to respect women is a major highlight in the film. The storyline may not be new for Tamil cinema, but the director has tailor-made it for Ajith and the mass audience. Anirudh's BGM is apt for the film, but it's the 'Aaluma Dolumaa' song that has the crowd whistling and clapping away. Lakshmi Menon has a strong role in the film. She is a natural actor and has essayed her role as Tamizh really well.

What's not:

It's clear that the movie is meant for the mass audience so the director has loaded it with all the possible elements. The first half of Vedalam is better put together than the second half. The film has many other characters as well, like Soori, Kovai Sarala, Vidyu Raman and Mottai Rajendran, who have been added for the comic element. But many of the jokes fall flat. As the leading lady, Shruti Haasan doesn't have much of a role except for a song and some scenes. Unfortunately, her role as a lawyer seems to be etched more on the lines of a bimbette. It also looks like she dubbed for herself in some parts and someone else has done other parts. It would be better if someone else dubs for her. The BGM in the movie for most parts is really loud for some reason and gets annoying.

What to do:

If you love watching Ajith on screen and enjoy commercial potboilers, then this film is for you.
